
Bhrigu Sutras 
It is an accepted fact that Rishi Bhrigu was the first compiler of predictive Astrology. His famous compilation, Bhrigu Samhita, which contains the predictions for thousands of combinations, is popular even today. There is a very interesting story behind Rishi Bhrigu's involvement with astrology.
The Brahmin community, in spite of their scriptural knowledge, intellect and honesty, were economically deprived, as their duty was to give knowledge and perform the rituals without seeking anything in return. They had to live entirely on the alms given by others. They requested Rishi Bhrigu to find an amicable solution to end their poverty.
Maharishi Bhrigu worshipped Goddess Lakshmi. After a long Tapasya, She appeared before him and granted his wish. She advised him to create an astrological treatise with the help of which the Brahmin community can predict the past, present and future of people, and this will ward off their poverty.
Bhrigu, with help of Lord Ganesha, compiled the famous Bhrigu Samhita. It consists of several lackhs of horoscopes with different planetary combinations, their results and the remedial measures for prosperity and to ward off the evils. The Brahmin community gratefully learned to interpret it and prospered.
The ‘Bhrigu Samhita’ is reported to be existing even today, though there are a lot of fakes and frauds.
Rishi Bhrigu also wrote the Bhrigu Sutras, which contain several important predictive clues.
Bhrigu Sutras index
Page 1
PART I
Chapter 1 Information of Planets and Houses
Zodiac and the twelve signs. Astrological nature, influence, Characteristics, functions of Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu. Their signs of exaltation and debilitation; their own signs; their friends, enemies and neutrals. 
Chapter 2 Significations of the Twelve Houses of the Horoscope
Page 2
Part II
Chapter I
Effects of Sun in the twelve houses. Dispositions when Sun in spite of being a malefic gives very beneficial results and gives rise to Raja yoga. Difference of effects when Sun is in own sign, sign of exaltation, enemy sign etc.
Chapter II
Effects of Moon in the twelve houses. Difference in effects of Moon when posited in a house in different signs; difference of effects of a waning and waxing Moon; dispositions when Moon produces Rajayoga, difference in effects when Moon is in own sign, sign of exaltation, sign of debilitation etc.
Page 3
Chapter III
Effects of Mars in the twelve houses. How a great malefic like Mars becomes a yogakaraka. Difference in effects of Mars in different houses when in own sign, sign of exaltation, sign of debilitation etc. Dispositions when Mars produces Ruchaka yoga, Dhana yoga and Raja yoga and their results. Special yogas for sexual perversions.
Chapter IV
Effects of Mercury in the twelve houses. When a benefic Mercury can become a malefic. Difference in effects of Mercury in different houses when in own sign, sign of exaltation, debilitation etc. Dispositions when Mercury produces, Bhadra yoga, Amia yoga, Dhana yoga and Raj yoga and their results.
Chapter V
Effects of Jupiter in the twelve houses. Difference in effects of Jupiter in own sign, sign of exaltation, sign of debilitation etc. Dispositions when Jupiter produces Hamsa yoga, Amia yoga, Dhana yoga^Raja yoga and their results. When lords of 6th, 8th and 12th houses become yoga karaka planets. Jupiter good even when is lord of the 3rd and 12th houses.
Page 4
Chapter VI
Effects of Venus in the twelve houses. Difference in effects of Venus is in own sign, sign of exaltation, sign of debilitation etc. Dispositions when Venus produces Malavya yoga, Amia yoga, Dhana yoga and Raj yoga and their results. Venus gives yoga effects when posited in the 6th and 12th houses.
Chapter VII
Effects of Saturn in the twelve houses. When a great malefic like Saturn gives very beneficial results and functions as yoga karaka planet. Saturn gives long life when posited in the 8th house. Effects of Saturn in own sign, sign of exaltation, sign of debilitation etc. Dispositions when Saturn produces Sasa yoga, Dhana yoga and Rajyoga and their results.
Chapter VIII
Effects of Rahu and Ketu in the twelve houses. Controversy about the roles of Rahu and Ketu in a horoscope and different views in that regard.
  

