
Welcome to the free reference library of Vedic astrology. This section is strictly for the authentic ancient Vedic astrology classics.
This page gives the links to the magnum opus, The Brihat Parashara Hora Sashtra of Rishi Parashara, which is the basic foundation and structure of Vedic astrology and most of the other Sashtras are based on this. Hence, I am providing you with the entire Brihat Parashara Hora Sashtras, with the authors notes and any additional comments I felt necessary. 
As per the other classics of astrology, well nothing is unimportant! However some are more important than the others. Bhrigu sutras of Rishi Bhrigu, Jaimini Sutras by Rishi Jaimini, the redoubtable Brihat Jataka  of the great Varaha Mihira, Saravali of Kalyanavarma, Hora Sara of Pitruvyasa (son of Varahamihira), and Sanketanidhi of Ramadayalu are a must. Prashna Tantra by Neelakanta and Daivagya Vallabha of Varaha Mihira are a must to cover the Prasna or horary astrology. All these classics are in this section - full and unabridged.
Some of the classics differ in their views. This is not because the Rishis who wrote them are fools or less knowledgeable. It is simply because these were written in different times and the changed socio-economic-religious circumstances were different, and hence the different interpretations. In some cases we astrologers also have to interpret the principles a bit differently. For example in some combinations it is said, "The unfortunate man will leave his home land and go abroad". In those days it was considered unfortunate. Today going abroad is a big thing for many Indians! So the same "unfortunate yoga" of yesteryears is a "fortunate yoga" today!! 
So far I have put 18 major astrology classics on site and more will be added soon. 
Disclaimer
This is a web based free library of Vedic astrology, just like any other public library. The material I have put here is from the translations of reputed authors and the copyrights belong to the authors. I am putting the material here so that those seeking to know and learn genuine Vedic astrology, can find and read it all in one place. Copying, publishing or misusing it for any commercial purpose is strictly prohibited. Doing so without seeking the authors permission will be considered a violation of their copyright and may bring penal action against you. If you misuse what is provided here freely in good faith this site will not be responsible in any way
Given below to the left are the links to the Brihat Parashara Hora Sashtra, pages and the Chapters Index in the pages.
The "Other Sashtras" link to the right will take you to the page giving details of the 16 other astrology classics like Brihat Jataka etc. 17 Other Sashtras List
Brihat Parashara Hora Sashtra Chapters Index
Introduction to Brihat Parashara Hora Sashtra
Page 1
Chapter 1     The creation
Chapter 2     Great incarnations
Chapter 3     Graha characters and description
Chapter 4     Zodiacal Rasis, their nature etc.
Chapter 5     Special Lagnas
Chapter 6     The 16 divisions of a rasi - Vargas
Chapter 7     The Divisional considerations
Chapter 8     Dristhis of the Rasis
Chapter 9     Evils at birth
Chapter 10   Antidotes to evils
Page 2
Chapter 11   Judgment of bhavas
Chapter 12   Effects of tanu bhava or 1st house
Chapter 13   Effects of dhana bhava or 2nd house
Chapter 14   Effects of sahaj bhava or 3rd house
Chapter 15   Effects of bandhu bhava or 4th house
Chapter 16   Effects of putra bhava od 5th house
Chapter 17   Effects of ari bhava or 6th house
Chapter 18   Effects of yuvati bhava or 7th house
Chapter 19   Effects of randhra bhava or 8th house
Chapter 20   Effects of dharma bhava or 9th house
Page 3
Chapter 21   Effects of karma bhava or 10th house
Chapter 22   Effects of the labha bhava or 11th house
Chapter 23   Effects of the vyaya bhava or 12th house 
Chapter 24   Effects of the bhava lords
Chapter 25   Effects of the non-luminous planets
Chapter 26   Effects of the evaluation of  drishtis of grahas
Chapter 27   Effects of the evaluation of strengths
Chapter 28   Effects of the isht and kasht balas
Chapter 29   Effects of the bhava padas
Chapter 30   Effects of the upa Padas
Page 4
Chapter 31   Effects of the argala or intervention from graha
Chapter 32   Effects of the karakatwas of the grahas
Chapter 33   Effects of the effects of karakans
Chapter 34   Effects of the yoga karakas
Chapter 35   Effects of the nabhash yogas
Chapter 36   Effects of the many other yogas
Chapter 37   Effects of the candr's yogas
Chapter 38   Effects of the surya's yogas
Chapter 39   Effects of the raj yog
Chapter 40   Effects of the yogas for royal association
Page 5
Chapter 41   Effects of the combinations for wealth
Chapter 42   Effects of the combination for penury
Chapter 43   Effects of the longevity
Chapter 44   Effects of the marak grahas
Chapter 45   Effects of the avasthas of grahas
Page 6
Chapter 46   Effects of the dashas of grahas
Chapter 47   Effects of the effects of dashas
Chapter 48   Effects of the distinctive effects of the nakshatra dasha or of the
                    dashas of the lords (vimshottari) of various bhavas
Chapter 49   Effects of the kaal chakra
Chapter 50   Effects of the char etc. dashas
Page 7
Chapter 51   Effects of the working out of antar dashas of grahas and rasis in vimshottari etc. dasha systems
Chapter 52   Effects of the antar dashas in the dasha of Surya (Vimshottari)
Chapter 53   Effects of the antar dashas in the dasha of Chandrahan 
Chapter 54   Effects of the antar dashas in the dasha of Mangal
Chapter 55   Effects of the antar dashas in the dasha of Rahu
Chapter 56   Effects of the antar dashas in the dasha of Guru
Chapter 57   Effects of the antar dashas in the dasha of Shani
Chapter 58   Effects of the antar dashas in the dasha of Budha
Chapter 59   Effects of the antar dashas in the dasha of Ketu
Chapter 60   Effects of the antar dashas in the dasha of Shukra
Page 8
Chapter 61   Effects of the pratyantar dashas in antar dashas
Chapter 62   Effects of the sukshmantal dashas in pratyantar dashas
Chapter 63   Effects of the prana dashas in sukshama dashas
Chapter 64   Effects of the antar dashas in the kala chakra
Chapter 65   Effects of the dashas of rasis in the amsas of the various rasis
Chapter 66   Ashtakavarga
Chapter 67   Trikon shodhana in the ashtakavarga
Chapter 68   Ekadhipatya shodhana in the ashtakavarga
Chapter 69   Pindasa sadana in the ashtakavarga
Chapter 70   Effects of the ashtakavarga
Page 9
Chapter 71   Determination of longevity through the ashtakavarg
Chapter 72   Aggregational ashtakavargas
Chapter 73   Effects of the rays of the grahas
Chapter 74   Effects of the sudarshana chakra
Chapter 75   Characteristic features of panchmahapurushas
Chapter 76   Effects of the elements
chapter 77   Effects of the gunas
Chapter 78   Lost horoscopy 
Chapter 79   Ascetism yogas
Chapter 80   Female Horoscopy
Chapter 81   Effects of characteristic features of parts of woman's body
Chapter 82   Effects of moles, marks, signs etc. for men and women
Page 10
Chapter 83   Effects of curses in the previous birth
Chapter 84   Remedial measures from the malevolence of grahas
Chapter 85   Inauspicious births
Chapter 86   Remedies for amavasya birth
Chapter 87   Remedies from birth on Krishna Chaturdashi
Chapter 88   Remedies from birth in bhadra and inauspicious yogas
Chapter 89   Remedies from nakshatr birth
Chapter 90   Remedies from sankranti birth
Chapter 91   Remedies fro birth in eclipses
Chapter 92   Remedies from gandanta birth
Chapter 93   Remedies for abhukta mula birth
Chapter 94   Remedies from jyeshtha gandanta birth
Chapter 95   Remedies from birth of a daughter after three sons
Chapter 96   Remedies from unusual delivery
Chapter 97   Conclusion 

