
 	Daivagyna Vallabha 
Daivagyna Vallabha by Varaha Mihira, also known as Sripati, is a great classic on Prashna or Horary branch of astrology. Varahamihira was the famous astrologer in the court of The Great king Vikramaditya in the year 57BC. He was also a great astronomer and the first one to mention in his work Pancha Siddhantika, based on our ancient Siddhantas, that the ayanamsa, or the shifting of the equinox is 50.32 seconds. He also authored the famous Brihat Samhita, Laghu Jataka and Yogayatra. 
Chapter 1- Beginning of the query 
1. Having paid obeisance to Lord Narasimha who is fierce by his form and who is ever emitting fire from face, who is one without a second, and who is the over-lord of the entire universe, Sripati (Varahamihir) is writing this work Daivajna Vallabha dealing with the science of Horary Astrology.
2. The astrologer, who proclaims good and bad results after a deep consideration of the ten Avasthas (states) of planets and the results arising from the different houses, never goes wrong.
3-6. Planetary States: Diptha (shining), Dina (miserable), Swastha (comfortable), Muditha (happy), Suptha (sleeping), Prapiditha (troubled), Mushita (robbed), Parihiyamanavirya (with power declining), Pravriddhavirya (with increased vigour), and Adhivirya (endowed with extreme power) are the ten planetary states: 
1. When the planet is placed in its exaltation sign is called Diptha.
2. When it is in its debilitation sign, it is called Dina.
3. In its own sign, the planet is termed Swastha.
4. In a friendly sign, it is called Mudhitha.
5. In an inimical sign, it is called Suptha.
6. When it is defeated in planetary war, it is termed Nipiditha.
7. While it is in heliocal setting, it is called Mushita.
8. While it is approaching its debilitation sign it is named Parihiyamanavirya.
9. While it is approaching its exaltation sign it is termed Pravriddhavirya.
10. The planet placed in the vargas of benefics after its rising, is called Adhikavirya. 
7-8. Results of Planetary states Diptha, etc. : When a planet is in Diptha state full acquisition of the desired objects is to be foretold. If it be in the Dina state it indicates impending poverty. 
If the planet be in the Swastha state, the object will be accomplished and there will be acquisition of wealth, fame and happiness in addition. If it be in the Mudhitha state, there will be all-round happiness, and the accomplishment of desired objects. 
If the planet be in the Prasuptha state, there will be danger and accidents etc. If it is in the Prapiditha state, there will be troubles through enemies. If it be in the Mushitha state, there will be loss of wealth. If the planet be in Pravriddhavirya state there will be aquisition of elephants, horses, gold and lands i.e. wealth. If it be Adhivirya state, it bestows the three kinds of powers HINDI (the powers of energy, good-counsel and majesty) and extensive properties. 
9-10. The duty of the querist : The querist should worship in his house, the planets and the rasi chakra (zodiacal diagram) and the stars with flowers, fruits, gold and precious stones. He should be full of devotion towards God and the planets and should offer homage to deities and preceptors. Carrying flowers, gems, fruits and sacred vice he should go to the astrologer and pay respects to him and with great reverence, facing an auspicious direction (east, north, etc.) he should put the query to him with a pure mind and that query should be put once only. 
11. The astrologer should understand the good and bad results by considering carefully the syllables of the query as also the omens obtaining around and then proclaim the prediction for that time. 
12. If the query is put in a place having charming trees laden with flowers, which is rendered pure by cow-dung, flowers and water and a place pleasing to the eyes, surely men will accomplish their desired objects without any doubt. 
13. If the place is pleasing to the eyes and the mind, if there be sight of auspicious objects at the time of the query, good results in response to the query are bound to happen in near future thus say the acharyas Maya and Maniththa. 
Chapter 2 - Good and Bad Results 
1. The five auspicious omens produce the achievement of desired objects. And the five inauspicious omens lead to undesirable result. If both auspicious and inauspicious omens are seen, the result has to be told by judgement of the strength of the omens. Results can be proclaimed on the basis of the strength of even four or less number of omens.
2. The house which is associated or aspected by its lord flourishes and yields its results fully. If the places 2, 4, 7, 10 and 12 counted from a house are occupied by benefics, the house flourishes. If the said places are occupied by malefics, it decays.
3. The different synonyms of the names of the twelve houses as also the names acquired by them through their functions are being told according to the opinion of the ancient sages. From these the results of the querries have to be judged.
4. Health, honour, qualities, nature, conduct, age, state, caste, purity, happiness, misery, expression, form, colour, wife of nephew - all these are to be judged from the first house.
5. Manikya (ruby), pearl, gem, metallic ores, articles, dress, gold, house, silver, grains, transactions, buying and selling - all these are to be judged from the 2nd house in general.
6. Daughter-in-law, younger brother, welfare, intellect, gains, servants, servant maids, valorous actions and things relating to brother - all these are to be judged from the third house.
7-8. House, treasure, entry into caves and other holes, great medicines, cultivated lands, fields, orchards, friends, water, ceremonies in connection with ancestors, coming and going, village, happiness, demotions, loss of post, gains, entry into a house, increase, parents, deeds relating to one's native country and gains therefrom - all these are to be judged from the fourth house.
9. Deeds of many kinds, humility, execution, planning, learning, Niti, intellect, hymns, chanting, compromise, pregnancy, children, intellect and happiness derived through children and wealth are matters to be judged from the fifth house.
10. Ill health, bad state, enemies, servants, cruel deeds, heavy actions, witchcraft applied by enemies with an intention of killing enemies, doubts, wars, uncle, buffaloes, diseases, etc. are to be considered from the sixth house.
11. Buying, health, trade, debates, lust, servants, wife, women, thefts, returning from travel, sister's son (nephew), coming and going - all these are denoted by the seventh house.
12. Longevity and enmity, death, ruling powers, strife, quarrels, cleft, quarrels among relatives, hatred, places difficult to approach, fort, destruction of wife and enemies, crossing of rivers etc. are to be seen from the eighth house.
13. Sacred study of books, intention in vedic temples, travels to holy places, love, coronation of kings, preceptor, meritorious deeds, reservoirs of water (wells, ponds, lakes etc.) brother-in-laws, brothers of husbands and wives and governmental favour are matters to be seen from the ninth house.
14. Clues from the sky, rains, actions of one's father and his place, respect, merit, country, power authority, cows, fall from position, (displacements, demotions, etc.) are judged from the tenth house.
15. Advancement of one's actions, success in enterprises, gains from trade, elephants, houses, dress, transport, vehicles, bedding, loss of gold and wealth, gains of damsels and elephants, father-in-law are judged from the eleventh house.
16. Renunciation, enjoyments, sacrifices, marriage, donation, cultivation, expenditure, injury, maternal uncle, mother's sister, wife of maternal uncle, wars, defeat in a war are matters to be seen from the twelfth house.
17. The objects that are to be judged from the different houses as proclaimed by the great Acharyas, Yavana, etc. become the functional names attributed to the house. From the corresponding house, the objects should be judged, in a query.
18. While answering queries, whatever object is under consideration, the house representing the same should be treated as the ascendant and the results declared.
19. From the functions attributed to the different houses, the ascendant has to be determined as told above. Past has to be judged from the 12th house and future from the 2nd house.
20. Combinations for success of the object of the query: If the ascendant falls in a Shirshodaya sign or in the sign of a benefic planet, the result of the query will be auspicious. Under opposite circumstances, results will be just the reverse. If the circumstances are mixed, results will also found to be of mixed nature.
21. All the desired objects are achieved if the benefics occupy the quadrants (1, 4, 7 & 10) and the trikona houses (5 and 9) and at the same time malefics are situated in the house 3, 6 and 11 and they do not occupy the angular house (1, 4, 7 & 10) and the 8th house.
22. If the lord of an angular house is placed in the ascendant or the friend of the lord of the ascendant be placed in an angular house and malefic planets do not occupy Kendras, 8th house and the 12th house (1, 4, 7, 10, 8 and 12), the result of the query will be auspicious.
23. In the ascendant falls in a human sign, and be aspected by benefic planets or if benefics occupy 1st, 4th, 7th, and 10th houses, and malefics occupy 3rd, 6th and 11th houses, good results, gains and financial prosperity have to be foretold.
24. The signs Gemini, Virgo, Tula, Aquarius are termed human signs. If benefics are placed in these signs, results will be auspicious. Malefics in the 11th and 12th houses will not yield good results. Weak Moon in the ascendant is not good. But in the 10th house it is good.
25. If the ascendant falls in a biped or a quadruped sign and is aspected by a malefic planet troubles will arise. But if aspected by benefic planet good results will arise. If there is a human sign on the ascendant, all the results will be good.
26. If the ascendant and the Moon are aspected by benefics, results will be good. But if they are aspected by malefic planets evil results happen. Thus have been declared the results arising from the Moon. 
Chapter 3 - Gains and Losses 
1. If benefics are placed in the 11th, 7th, 5th and the 3rd houses they cause gain. Malefics placed in these houses do not yield desired result. Benefics placed in the 10th or 7th bestow status and position upon the native. When they are placed in the 2nd, 5th or 1st house they confer respect, honour and wealth upon the native. 
2. If the Moon is placed in the 7th, 10th, 2nd, 6th, 3rd or 11th places and is aspected by benefics, the person will get good results through a lady or he will have gains through the help of a woman. But if the Moon is placed in the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 8th or 9th houses aspected by evil planets, he will cause fear. There will be destruction or failure in undertaking and expenditure of wealth. If benefics are situated in these houses, they will confer status, wealth, property and other good results upon the native. 
3. If Benefics are placed in triangular houses and quadrants and malefics in 3rd, 6th, and 11th houses, the querist will have gains very quickly. If they are situated otherwise (in the opposite manner) they do not produce any gain. 
4. Satyacharya and Acharya Bali state that if Moon is placed in the 4th or 7th house and the Sun in placed in the ascendant or the 10th house, the person has monetary gains immediately. 
5. If the ascendant of query falls in the signs Taurus, Leo, Scorpio or Aquarius the person gains some position (status) or post. If it falls in a movable sign, this does not happen. If the ascendant falls in a dual sign both results happen. 
Here ends Chapter III entitled "Gains and Losses". 
Chapter 4 - Travels, coming and going in general
1. If the ascendant of query falls in a fixed sign, there is no coming and going (i.e., no travels). If it falls in a movable sign, travel (coming and going) definitely occurs. If the ascendant falls in a dual sign, the first and second half of the dual sign produce the results similar to movable and fixed signs. 
2. Even if one among the planets Sun, Saturn, Mercury and Venus be placed in the ascendant identical with a Chara (movable sign) travel takes place early. But if this planet is retrograde there will be no travel. 
3. If the ascendant falls in a fixed sign with one among Jupiter, Mercury, Venus or Sun is placed therein, the traveller breaks his journey and returns without any doubt. 
4. If at the time of query, one of the planets Sun, Jupiter, Mercury or Venus be placed in the eleventh house, the person will have to go out on a journey very early. But if one of these planets be placed in the 12th house, he breaks his journey and returns - thus one ought to tell. 
5. If the ascendant falls in a fixed sign and even if one of Saturn or Jupiter aspects the same and if the query relates to the return of a person who has gone to distant lands, the reply should be that there, is no return. 
6. If the ascendants fall in a fixed sign and there is aspect of malefic planets on the malefics placed in 5th, 6th, and 9th houses travel is not to be predicted. But if the ascendant falls in a movable sign, travel will take place definitely. 
7. If Venus, Jupiter or Mercury is placed in the 2nd or 12th sign from Lagna or Chandra lagna what is there to be told about travel, to the querist. 
8. Time of return : Count the number of the signs in which the strongest planet is placed away from the lagna. The person in exile will return in so many months as indicated by this number. There is no doubt regarding this. 
9. If the strongest planet is placed in a movable navamsha the time period is to be taken as indicated. But if it be in fixed Navamsha, the time period is to be doubled. And if the strongest planet be in a dual navamsha the time period is to be trebled. 
10. Scholars, well versed in Horary Astrology declare that at the time when the lord of the 7th house from the ascendant of query becomes retrograde, the person in exile returns. 
Chapter 5 - The Invasion and Retreat of Enemies 
1. If the 5th or 6th house is occupied by malefics the enemy retreats on the way. When malefics are placed in the 4th house, the enemy-even though he might have approached very near will have his forces defeated and destroyed and thereafter returns disinterested. 
2. If the fourth house falls in the signs Scorpio, Pisces or Cancer and is aspected by benefic planets the enemy is defeated. If there be a quadruped sign on the fourth house, the enemy who has come with the intention of conquering definitely runs away. 
3. If the ascendant falls in a movable sign (Chara rasi) and contains a benefic planet, then surely it causes more auspicious results to the kings who attack. If the movable ascendant is combined with a malefic planet surely inauspicious results occur to them. If a fixed sign rises with benefic planet in it definitely good results are produced. 
4. If the Moon is placed in a fixed sign and the ascendant is on a movable sign, or Navamsha, the enemy surely comes. But if the Moon is in a movable sign and the ascendant falls in a fixed sign or Navamsha, the enemy does not attack. 
5. If the Moon is in a dual sign and the ascendant falls in a fixed sign, the enemy comes and then returns. In this combination, if Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are placed in the sixth house, the enemy is destroyed. 
6. If the ascendant falls in a fixed sign and is aspected by Jupiter and Saturn then either the enemy does not come or he may not go back after attacking. If malefics are placed in 3rd, 5th and 6th house the enemy has to be faced. If they are placed in the 4th house, the enemy surely returns. 
7. If the Moon is placed in a movable sign and the ascendant falls in a dual sign the enemy comes half way and then returns. If the Moon is placed in a dual sign and the ascendant falls in a movable sign, the enemy comes with two armies. But if the ascendant and the Moon are aspected by malefic planets, he is defeated also. 
8. If the Moon and the Sun are situated in the 4th house, the terrible army of the enemy does not come. But if the 4th house is occupied by Jupiter, Mercury and Venus the enemy comes very soon. 
9. If the ascendant or the fourth house falls in the signs Leo, Aries, Sagittarius and Taurus and if no planet is situated in these places then also enemy will not be able to stay. This is certain. 
10. If there be a fixed sign on the ascendant and if it is occupied by the Sun or Jupiter, the enemy is quiet in his own place. But if the same planets are placed in a movable sign in the ascendant, it should be told that the enemy will come soon. 
11. If Jupiter and Venus are placed separately or together in the second or the third house, the enemy comes very soon. If the lords of the 1st, 9th and 10th house are placed in fixed signs, the enemy never comes. 
12. The time of attack of the enemy: If there be no planet between the ascendant and the Moon, the enemy will attack in as many days as are indicated by the house occupied by the Moon from the Lagna. 
Here ends Chapter V entitled "The Invasion and Retreat of Enemies" of Daivajnavallabha. 
Chapter 6 - Queries about one who is Abroad 
1. If all the planets are situated in 3rd, 5th and 2nd house the person who has gone abroad surely returns. Benefics in these places cause the retrieval of lost object. If Jupiter or Venus is placed there the person returns quickly. 
2. If Jupiter is situated in a quadrant and there is a planet in the 6th or 7th then the person who has gone abroad returns. Similarly, if Mercury or Venus is placed in the 5th or 9th houses the person returns. 
3. If the Moon is placed in the 8th House, and there is no malefic in the angles the person who has gone abroad returns happily. If there is a benefic planet in the angles, he returns with gains. 
4. If a prishthodaya sign happens to be the ascendant and the same is aspected by a malefic, the person who has gone abroad is dead or he is in jail. If the ascendant is aspected by a benefic planet, the bad results do not happen. If a malefic is placed in the 6th, Kendra or 3rd house the person is either lost, gone elsewhere or has fallen from his position. 
5. If Jupiter and Venus be placed in the 2nd and 3rd houses in any manner, the person gone abroad, will surely return. If they be placed in the 4th house, the person gone abroad definitely enters his house (returns). 
6. If malefics are placed in the 3rd or 11th houses and benefics are situated in Kendras and Trikonas (i.e., 1, 4, 7, 10, 5 and 9) the person surely returns. 
7. If Saturn is placed in 4th, 8th, 9th or 5th house in the sign owned by a malefic and aspected by a malefic, the person who has gone abroad is definitely put to confinement in jail etc. 
8. If the ascendant falls in fixed sign and the same is occupied by a benefic, the confinement is permanent. But, if the ascendant falls in a movable sign and contains a malefic planet, he is released from imprisonment early. If there is a dual sign on the ascendant, release takes place after some time. 
9. If malefics are placed in 5th, 9th and 7th houses and if they are aspected by planets inimical to them and if the ascendant falls in a Prishthodaya sign not aspected by benefics death of the traveller on the way is indicated. 
10. If a benefic is placed in the 9th house, the traveller does not encounter any kind of trouble on the way. If there be a malefic planet on the ascendant there will be fear, diseases, difficulties and other troubles on the way. 
Chapter 7 - Success and Defeat 
1. The benefics placed in the 10th 7th and 1st houses bestow victory to the king residing in the city (i.e. one attacked). Saturn and 
Mars placed in the 9th house cause fear and defeat but the benefics Jupiter, Venus and Mercury placed in the 9th house confer victory on him. 
2. In the chart of query, the six houses beginning from the third belong to the citizens' king residing in the city who is being attacked. The six houses beginning from the ninth belong to the invader. The part conjoined with benefics gives victory to the party indicated by the same. The part containing malefics causes defeat to the corresponding party. 
3. If both benefics and malefics are placed in these parts, mixed results are to be predicted. Some scholars state differently - malefics posited in 10th, 11th and 12th houses cause benefic results to the invader but produce malefic results to the citizens 
4. Even if malefics are placed in anyone of the signs Gemini, Libra, Aquarius, Virgo and Aries, the invader gets success and the one who is attacked is defeated. 
5. If there is a human sign on the ascendant and there are malefics in the quadrants, 12th house and 11th house the two parties will enter into treaty very soon. If malefics are placed in dual signs, enmity between the two parties will be the result. 
6. If there is a human sign on the ascendant and the same is aspected by benefics or if there are benefics in the quadrants there is enmity between the two parties. If on the said ascendant, there is malefic aspect or if there are malefic planets in those places, enmity between the two parties is the result. 
7. If there is a sign owned by a malefic on the ascendant and if the same is aspected or combined with malefics, a terrible war is to be predicted. If there be aspect of benefic planets over the same, the war will be a small one. 
8. The Yavanacharya has declared that keeping the Sun, Wind, Jupiter and Venus on the back side one wins his enemies and attains fame. 
9. If Saturn placed in quadrant, aspects Sun posited in another quadrant, the result is defeat. If the Sun be placed in the eighth house and is aspected by Saturn posited in a quadrant, death will be the result. 
10. If the Sun in placed in the ascendant and the Moon is in the eighth house and if Mars and Saturn aspect them, defeat is certain to the querist. If the Moon is posited in the ascendant and the Sun is in the eighth house, aspected by Mars and Saturn, defeat would be the result. 
11. Combination for the Victory of the Invader: If at the time of query Jupiter, Mercury, the Sun and Venus be placed in the houses, 5th, 4th, 3rd and 1st and if the Moon, Saturn and Mars be placed in the eleventh house the invading king conquers the defendant and carries booty, etc. 
12. If Mars or Saturn is placed in the ascendant, Jupiter in the 5th, Sun in the 10th, and Venus or Mercury in the 10th or 11th house, victory over the enemies is certain. 
13. If Jupiter, the Sun and the Moon are respectively placed in the ascendant, 6th house, and 10th house there will be success. In the same way, it should be understood that if Jupiter, Venus and the Sun are in the 1st house, 6th house and the 10th house, the person will have victory in war. 
14. One will get an able minister or adviser if there is Jupiter in the 11th house and there are Saturn and Mars in the 10th house. If Mercury is placed in the 7th house, there will be victory. 
15-16. If Mars, the Sun and Saturn are placed in the 3rd house and there is a benefic in the ascendant the querist will have success. Parashara has declared that the placement of the Jupiter in the ascendant and a malefic in the 11th or 10th house produces victory. 
17. If Mars and Saturn are placed in the 6th house and the Moon and Jupiter are placed in the ascendant with Mercury and Venus in the 11th house and the Sun in the 10th house, there is definite victory. 
18. Defeat and Death in War: The king will be defeated in war if the houses 9th, 5th and the 1st are respectively occupied by Saturn, the Moon and Mars. If the Moon and Saturn are placed in the ascendant aspected by Mars the king dies (in the war). 
19. Other Combinations for Death in War: If there be Mars and Saturn in the eighth house and the Sun in the ascendant death results. Similarly, if the Sun and the Moon occupy anyone of the places 3rd, 11th or the 8th there will be death in war. 
20. If Mars, Mercury and the Moon occupy the 7th house the king who goes on expedition to conquer dies. If Venus and Mars are placed in the ascendant enemies will increase in number and death from hunger results to the party attacked. 
21. If there is a sign belonging to Mars or Saturn on the ascendant, and in the 6th house there is a sign belonging to Mercury or Venus and in the eighth house there is the sign belonging to the Sun, and if these places are occupied by malefics, in that war an intelligent minister of the king dies in the battle. 
22. If there are malefics in the ascendant and the 5th house, the son of the querist surely dies. If the Moon occupies the ascendant along with Mars, and if they are aspected by Saturn he will be defeated in war. 
23. If the Moon occupies the 7th or the 8th house and the Sun is placed in the ascendant or if the Sun occupies the 7th or 8th house and the Moon is the ascendant the king (who goes to conquer his enemies) and his army meets with fear, defeat and death. 
24. If weak and eclipsed malefics are placed in the 2nd, 3rd and angular houses with the Moon in the 8th house then the king putting the query will be either captured or will be killed. 
25. If Mars and the Moon occupy the 7th house and the Sun and Mercury are placed in the ascendant, there will be rift in the army. Similarly, if Saturn and Mars are placed in the 7th house and in the ascendant Mercury and Venus are placed, then also there will be quarrels in the army leading to defeat. 
26. If all these planets (the Sun, Mars, Saturn and Mercury told in the previous sloka) be placed in the ninth house the king kills his minister and preceptor. In this very combination if the Moon is placed in the ascendant the king kills his preceptors, horses, artists, craftsmen and his sons. 
27. If the Sun and Saturn placed in the ascendant receive the aspect of Mars and the Moon is placed in the 7th house and all the benefics are weak, the Commander-in-Chief of the king will be killed. 
28. If the Moon is placed in the 7th house with the Sun in the ascendant, Saturn and Mars in the 8th house and Mercury is placed in third house, the king and his minister are killed in the war. 
29. If a sirshodaya sign rises on the ascendant aspected by or conjoined with benefics and friendly planets and if strong benefics occupy the ascendant in the varga of benefics all things are accomplished. Under a reverse combination evil ensues. Other things may be considered with reference to the ascendant of travel and the natal horoscope. 
Chapter 8 - Recovery from Diseases 
1. If a malefic is situated in the ascendant or the 8th house and aspects the sign occupied by Moon in the natal chart of the patient that patient surely dies. 
2. If there is a prishthodaya sign on the ascendant, malefics occupy quadrants, the Moon is in the eighth house, that patient dies. If strong malefics aspect the ascendant and the Moon then the patient dies. 
3. If the ascendant is occupied by the Moon or Mercury aspected by malefics, troubles and hardships are to be foretold to the querist. 
4. If benefics occupy the 5th, 7th and 8th houses and there is aspect of benefic planets over the malefics and the Moon occupies 11th, 3rd, 6th or 10th houses and there are benefics in the same places counted from the Moon, the patient recovers. 
5. If Saturn placed in the ninth house is combined with or aspected by malefics and it is not having conjunction and aspect of benefic planets, the patient goes to some foreign country. If such a Saturn is in the 6th or 8th house, the patient surely dies. 
6. If the Moon is situated in an Upachayasthana and there are benefics situated in quadrants, trines and the eighth house or if there is aspect of benefic planets over the ascendant the patient recovers after going to a different place. 
7. If there is Full Moon in the ascendant getting the aspect of Jupiter or if Jupiter and Venus are placed in quadrants the patient is cured. 
8. If there is a fixed sign on the ascendant, death does not take place and the disease is also not cured. In a movable ascendant the result is reverse. In a dual sign the result is similar to that of a fixed sign. 
Chapter 9 - Lost Articles 
1. If there is a fixed sign, fixed Navamsha, or Vargothama Navamsha in the ascendant the article stolen is in the same place and surely a person known to the querist has stolen it. If there is a movable sign or Navamsha on the ascendant some external person has stolen it. 
2. If there is a dual sign on the ascendant, some neighbour has stolen the article - thus it should be predicted. If a fixed sign rises the article is there itself. But if a movable sign rises, it has gone elswhere. 
3. If a dual sign rises the stolen article has gone outside the house. The caste, colour, qualities and form of the the if will correspond to the nature of the strongest planet placed in the 7th house. If it is an odd sign there and there is under aspect of a male planet, the thief is a male otherwise a female. 
4. From the Navamsha in which the ascendant falls, the nature of the lost article is judged. From the decanate rising, the form of the thief should be judged. From the rising sign, direction (where the theft has occurred), place and the time of theft are to be judged. 
5. The ages of the planets the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Jupiter, Sun and Saturn are respectively those of : (1) suckling child 2) boy (3) celibate (HINDI) (4) young man (5) middle aged person (6) old man (7) and a very old man. 
6. If the ascendant falls in the sign Leo, and the Sun and the Moon are placed therein, and if the same is aspected by Saturn and Mars the thief will be blind. If weak Moon is placed in the 12th house, his left eye will be blind and if the weak Sun is placed in the 12th house, his right eye will be blind. 
7. If a malefic is placed in the 6th house in the limb represented by its sign or the Bhava where a malefic is placed injury is to be foretold. And whatever has been told by me at the time of birth regarding moles, marks and forms all that is to be suitably used here in this enquiry. 
8. If the ascendant falls in the first decanate (0o to 10o) the article has been stolen. In second decanate, it indicates that the article has fallen somewhere. The third decanate, indicates that the person has kept the article somewhere and then forgotten. Thus it is to be guessed. Even if lost, it is within the house and has not gone out of the door when the third decanate rises. 
9. The direction where the stolen article has gone is to be told from the planet placed in the quadrants. If it is not possible, the direction is to be told from the sign of the ascendant. The distance is to be told from the number of Navamsha elapsed, country from the 5th Navamsha in the lagna. This number will give the distance in Yojana. One yojana may be taken roughly as equal to a mile. 
10. If there is Venus in the second house and Jupiter in the 12th house with a benefic in the ascendant the stolen article is got back. If the Moon is in the ascendant, it is got in the direction of the sign of the ascendant and if the Sun is in the direction it is got in the direction of the ascendant. 
11. If there is full Moon in the ascendant or query or if there is a benefic in a Sirshodaya rasi aspected by a benefic or if there is a very strong benefic in the eleventh house, the lost article is got back quickly. 
12. If there be a benefic in the second, third, or fourth house or if the same be in the fourth, seventh and the tenth houses, the stolen article is got back without any doubt. 
13. If full Moon be posited in the ascendant and if is aspected by Jupiter or Venus or if benefics be placed in quadrants and upachayasthanas (3, 6 and 11) or if benefics be placed in the second and Upachayasthanas the stolen articles are got back. 
14. If full Moon, Jupiter, Venus or Mercury is placed in the ascendant, the stolen article is got back. Or if benefics are placed in the seventh house, the stolen article is got back. 
15. If there is a benefic in the 2nd or 3rd house from the ascendant or from the 4th house the stolen article is got back definitely. 
16. If the ascendant of query falls on the sign of a malefic, aspected by a malefic the stolen article will not be got back. If on the ascendant there is a benefic, aspected by another benefic, the stolen article will be definitely got back. 
17. If the 7th house falls in the sign Leo, Scorpio, or Aquarius and these signs contain in their own Navamshas and if the 7th house is aspected by malefics the article will not be got back. Or if Mars is placed in the 8th house in these Navamshas, the lost article will not be got back. 
Chapter 10 - Queries Regarding objects held in the mind or in the Fist 
1. If on the ascendant the Moon or Mercury is situated and if there is the aspect of the Moon or Mercury on the ascendant the querist is thinking about some girl. If Saturn is placed in the ascendant, the querist is thinking about an old woman. The Sun and Jupiter similarly placed indicate a middle-aged woman while Venus and Mars would indicate a young woman. If the query relates to a male, these combinations have to be interpreted as indicating boy, old man, middle-aged man and a young man. 
2. If Venus, the Sun and Saturn are placed on the 7th house, the thought is about the wife of another person. Jupiter indicates one's own wife. Moon or Mercury would show a courtesan. Saturn, Rahu or Ketu will show that the query is regarding a woman belonging to a low caste. From the degree of the Moon, the age of the woman under query is to be judged. 
3. The query relates to one's own self, brother, son, mother, sister or enemy according as the planet endowed with strength is situated in the ascendant, third house, fifth house, fourth house or the sixth house. 
4. The query is concerning one's wife, religion or proceptor, according as the strong planet is placed in the 7th, 9th or 10th house. The strength of the planet is to be guessed from its placement in own Navamsha, Navamsha of a friendly planet or the Navamsha of an inimical planet. 
5. If on the ascendant, there rises a movable sign or the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th Navamshas of a chara rasi, the query in the mind is regarding life abroad. If any planet moves further away from the 7th house and returns to the 7th house with retrograde motion, the person who has gone abroad will return. If the planet is not retrograde the person will not return. 
6. The signs Libra, Scorpio, Leo and Virgo are long. Sagittarius, Capricorn, Cancer and Gemini are of medium length. Aries Taurus, Pisces and Aquarius are short. The length (or size) of an article is to be predicted from the length of the respective signs. 
7. The Sun and Mars are red in colour. The Moon and Venus are white. Mercury is green. Jupiter is yellow and Saturn is black. 
8. The Sun is square is form. Mars is round. Mercury is tall. The Moon is also tall. Jupiter is round. Venus is thin. Saturn has a long form. Thus has been told the forms and shapes of the planets. In the case of silent queries, the shape, colour and form of the article is to be divined from the shape, colour and form of the strongest planet at the moment of query. 
9. Query regarding mineral, vegetable or animal : If a planet situated in its own Navamsa aspects its own Navamsa falling in the ascendant or a triangular house or is placed therein the query is relating to a mineral and this is certain. If the planet be situated in the Navamsa belonging to another planet but aspects its own Navamsa, falling on the ascendant or a triangular house, the query concerns a living being. If the planet is placed in the Navamsa of another planet and is aspecting the Navamsa of another planet falling on the ascendant or a triangular house, the query relates to a vegetable. 
10. If the planet is placed in an odd sign the Navamsas denote query about mineral, vegetable and animal respectively. If the planet is posited in an even sign, this should be considered in the reverse order i.e., the first Navamsa represent, animals, the second vegetables and the third minerals. This in short is the method to be adopted in silent queries. 
11. If the Sun and Mars are strong, they indicate a query regarding some mineral. If the Saturn or Mercury is strong, the query relates to vegetabes. If the Moon, Jupiter and Venus are strong the query is regarding some animal. 
12. If Aries, Leo or Scorpio rises as ascendant and the same is conjoined with or aspected by Mars or the Sun, the query relates to some mineral. If Gemini, Virgo, Capricorn or Aquarius rises as ascendant and the same is conjoined to or aspected by Saturn or Mercury the query relates to a vegetable. 
13. If Taurus, Cancer, Sagittarius, Libra or Pisces rises as ascendant and the same is conjoined with or aspected by the Moon, Venus and Jupiter the query will be concerning some animal. If planets of different kinds conjoin or aspect the ascendant, the query will be concerning mixture of the corresponding categories. (i.e., mineral, vegetable, and animal). 
Chapter 11 - Queries regarding Rains 
1. If Saturn and Venus happen to be placed in the 7th house from the Sun and the Moon or in the 4th or 8th houses from the ascendant or in the 2nd or 3rd house from the ascendant rain-fall occurs immediately without any delay, during the rainy season. 
2. During the bright fortnight of the month, if benefic planets occupy watery signs and be placed in an angular house, the second or in the third house or if the Moon is placed in the ascendant identical with a watery sign it should be predicted that rainfall is sure to occur. 
3. If the Moon or Venus is placed in the ascendant identical with Cancer, Capricorn, and Pisces rainfall occurs. Similarly, Venus and the Moon placed in an angular house aspected by benefics, produce rains. 
4. If the ascendant falls in a watery sign and if the Moon is placed there, aspected by Venus, heavy rains occur. Venus also similarly placed and aspected by the Moon produces heavy rains. 
Chapter 12 - Query relating to Marriage 
1. If the Moon is placed in the houses 3rd, 5th, 6th, 7th or 11th from the ascendant aspected by the Sun, Jupiter and Mercury the querist is to be told that marriage is sure to take place. Similarly benefics placed in quadrants and trines cause marriage to occur. 
2. Under these combinations, if a benefic is posited in the 7th house, he will get a good (beautiful) wife. If a malefic is in the 7th house, he will get a woman devoid of any beauty. 
3. If Saturn is placed in the 7th house identical with an even sign, the querist is sure to get a damsel for marriage. If it be in odd sign he will not get any girl. So say the masters on this subject. 
4. If the Moon is placed in the 2nd, 7th or the Uphachaya houses aspected by Jupiter, he gets a young woman. If the same Moon is associated with a malefic planet or is aspected by malefic planets, he will not get any woman. 
5. If at a query (relating to marriage), the Moon is placed in the 6th or 8th house, the person dies in the eighth year after marriage. 
6. If a malefic is placed in the ascendant, and another malefic is placed in the 7th house there from, the person dies within seven years after marriage. 
7. If the Moon is placed in the ascendant and Mars is placed in the 7th house, the person lives just for eight months after marriage. 
8. If Venus or Mercury is placed in the ascendant or the 8th house, in a query relating to marriage, the girl will surely become a widow. If Mars is placed in the 7th house the girl dies before marriage. 
The location of a strong Mars in the 7th house of a female nativity where it is not exalted or in his own sign is dangerous for the longevity of the husband. This is quite understandable as Mars in the 7th house harms the house of the husband (7th) as well as the house of his longevity (8th from 7th) i.e. the second. We should therefore, examine both the 2nd and the 7th houses for this purpose. 
9. If the Sun is placed in the 7th house, the children born to this girl will die. If the Sun is placed in the ascendant, he will make her immoral and unchaste. There is no doubt regarding this. 
10. If Moon and Mercury placed in the 6th house are associated with malefics will make the girl ill-tempered and unlucky. If the Moon and Venus are placed in the eleventh or 7th house, the girl will become unchaste. If in these places, Mercury and Venus are associated with malefics the girl surely becomes a widow. In all the houses mentioned in the shloka if there exists association with malefics the girl becomes a prostitute. 
11. If the Moon occupies any one of the house 3rd, 5th, 6th, 7th or 11th counted from the ascendant aspected by Jupiter, Sun and Mercury and not by other, it indicates that marriage is to take place immediately. If it is aspected by malefics, it will cause obstacles in the arrangement of the marriage. 
12. If strong Venus aspects Mercury or the Moon placed in the ascendant, he will get a girl without any delay. If it is aspected by malefics, he will not. 
13. If the ascendant and the Moon fall in movable sings and if both are aspected by Venus with a malefic placed in an angular house, he will get a good girl as bride. 
Chapter 13 - Birth of Male or Female children 
1. In a query relating to pregnancy, if the ascendant falls in a fixed sign and is aspected by benefics it should be told that the woman is surely pregnant - This is the opinion of Yavanacharya. 
2. If Saturn occupies an odd sign, he causes the birth of a son. If he occupies an even sign, he causes the birth of a girl - Thus it has been told by Brihaspati, the great celestial astrologer. 
3. If the ascendant falls in a number of male vargas (rasi, drekkana, navamsa, dwadasamsa etc., are owned by a male planet) and be strongly aspected by male planets, surely a son will be born. If the query concerns marriage the girl will surely get a good bridegroom 
4. Yavanacharya has declared that if the ascendant falls on a female sign, or female Navamsa or female Drekkana and is not aspected by any male planet a girl child will be born. 
5. If the ascendant, Jupiter and the Moon be placed in odd signs and in the signs and Navamsas owned by male planets and be endowed with strength, a son will be born. If these are placed in an even sign and the Navamsas owned by female planets, a girl will be born. If Jupiter and the Sun be in an odd sign, birth of a son is to be predicted. 
If the Moon, Venus and Rahu are placed in an even sign and an even Navamsa birth of a girl is to be predicted. 
6. The number of nurses attending the lady during delivery will be equal to the number of planets placed between the ascendant and Moon. So many nurses will be outside the delivery room as there are planets in the visible half of the zodiac and so many will be inside as there are planets in the invisible half. 
7. Time of conception : If in a male nativity Sun and Venus are placed in Upachayasthanas identical with signs of their Navamsas and be endowed with strength conception will take place. (i.e., their wives will conceive and child will be born). Similarly, if in the case of females Mars and the Moon are similarly situated conception will take place. 
8. If Moon is placed in the Navamsa of Saturn or in its own Navamsa or be conjoined with Saturn in the 4th house, the lamp has been already extinguished. This condition can be applied to Natal and Prenatal charts also. 
9. If the ascendant and the Moon are placed between two malefics without being aspected by benefics, the woman in pregnancy dies. 
10. The planets Venus, Mars, Jupiter, the Sun the Moon, Saturn Mercury, the lord of the ascendant, the Sun, and the Moon are the lords of the Months of pregnancy starting from the time of conception. 
11. These planets cause abortion in the months pertaining to them, when they are in enemy's camp, defeated in planetary war conjoined with enemies, placed in heliacal setting or are afflicted otherwise. 
12. Colour and Shapes of Planets : The Sun is red and cruel. The Moon is beautiful. Mars has fierce eyes. Mercury is extremely modest. Jupiter is ever in the company of learned men. Venus is one-eyed. Saturn is lame. (Saturn if afflicted gives trouble in legs. Hence called lame). These planets when placed in the ascendant produce similar results to the native. Due consideration must be given to their strengths, however. 
Chapter 12 - Miscellaneous Matters 
1. Fall is to be divined from the ascendant, prosperity from the 4th, exile from the 10th and return from 7th house. All these matters are to be judged from the position of planets at the time if query in these houses. If a strong benefic planet is placed in the 4th house, say that the person who had gone out has entered his house. 
2. Query Relating to Servant and Master : There will be good results to both servant and the master if benefics are placed in houses 2nd, 8th and 7th and malefics in the 3rd and 6th house. But if the situation be reverse i.e., if houses 2nd, 7th and 8th are occupied by malefics and houses 3rd and 6th are occupied by benefics there will be discord and strife between the master and the master and the servant and there will be staying away from the home. 
3. If benefics occupy the 8th and 2nd house, long-life is to be predicated for the querist. But if malefics occupy these houses, his life will be short. 
4. If benefics occupy 10th and 4th houses there will be happiness and prosperity. If these houses are occupied by malefics, happiness and prosperity of the native will suffer. If benefics are placed in the 2nd and 11th houses, acquisition of wealth is to be predicted. 
5. If malefics occupy the ascendant of query, there will be bodily ailments and strifes to the querist. If malefics occupy the 4th house, he will not be happy. There will arise quarrels in the house and enmity with relatives. 
6. Planets placed in the 7th house produce obstacles during travel. The wise declare evil results for Karma if malefics are posited in the tenth house. The desired object will be accomplished with great difficulty if the concerned houses are not aspected by benefics. 
7. If the Moon is conjoined with or aspected by malefic planets, there will be quarrels with womenfolk. Or if there be malefic planets placed in the 4th and 7th houses the same result is to be understood. 
8. In a query regarding the whereabouts of one's father if the Sun is placed in the eighth house from the ascendant, combined with or aspected by a benefic his father has already gone away from the place where he was residing previously to some other place. 
9. (Now the tastes pertaining to the planets are told : This is useful in a quuery regarding diet. i.e. HINDI) The Sun indicates pungent taste, the Moon saltish, Mars bitter, Mercury mixture of various tastes, Jupiter sweet, Venus sour, and Saturn astringent. The planet in an angular house, is to be taken as strong and the taste indicated by the same is to be told as being predominant in the food taken by the querist. 
10. The taste ascribed to the planet that aspects the ascendant or failing it the one placed in a quadrant is to be proclaimed. Other tastes are to be told in the order of the powerful planets according to their strength. 
11. The taste will be good if the planet is placed in a sign belonging to a benefic planet. It will be without any taste if the sign belongs to a malefic. If the planet is retrograde, the person who is dining will not eat things of that taste already placed in the plate. But will taste it when given afterwards. 
12. When the ascendant falls in a fixed sign and the query relates to travel or return of a person gone abroad, there will be neither travel nor any return. The disease will not subside in a query relating to disease. There will be no loss of wealth in a query relating to money matters. The patient will not die, in a query concerning disease. If it concerns a person gone abroad, he will not be lost (i.e., he will come back safe.) 
If the query is regarding victory or defeat, there will be no defeat. But if the ascendant falls in a movable sign, all these results will be reverse. 
13. If a dual sign rises, mixed results will happen. Similar results are to be told when movable and fixed navamsas rise. If there is benefic aspect over the ascendant and the Moon, all types of good results will happen. If both are aspected by malefic planets, bad results will occur. 
14. The houses, ascendant onwards, represent head, eyes, ears, nose, cheek, chin and the face respectively. The same houses are representatives of the limbs neck, shoulders, hands, sides (flanks), heart, bosom and navel. They aslo signify the houses bladder, genitals, anus, thighs, knees, and the feet. In this way, the representation of the limbs of the human body by the various bhavas according to the rising of the 1st, 2nd and the 3rd drekkanas of the rising respectively to be understood. 
15. There will be a wound or sore on that part of the body signified by the house which is conjoined with or aspected by a malefic. There will be a mole etc., on the house combined with or aspected by a benefic planet. If that planet happens to be placed in its own sign or navamsa or a fixed sign, the wound or mole will be from the time of birth. Otherwise it will be one caused at a later stage. The cause of the scar would be as follows: Saturn-through stone, or wind-trouble; Mars-fire, weapons or poison; Mercury-through wood or some animal : Moon-through being pierced by horns of an animal or by water. Other benefic planets produce the scar through some good cause. 
16. The house wherein three planets along with Mercury are situated, produces invariably a wound or a mole in the part of the body signified by that house. If a malefic is situated in the 6th house, in the part of the body signified by sign in which the sixth house falls, wounds are caused. If that planet is aspected by benefic planets, there will be a mole or mark on that part. If it be only conjoined with benefic planets there will be just a mark. 
17. In the body of beasts, the signs Aries onwards represent the head, face, legs, shoulders, back, breast, sides, belly, rectum, feet, genitals, buttocks and the tail. 
18-22. Ascertain the measure in Anguls of the shadow of the shanku at the time of the query. With the help of this shadow find out the longitude of the Ascendant at the time according to the rules given in "Grah Laghav" (we can find out straight away also the Ascendant) - Leave the signs and degrees of the Ascendant and taking only the minutes multiply the minutes by the length of the shadow. Divide the product by 7 and find out the remainder. In the Table given above multiply the figure of the remainder with its corresponding figure shown under it (under 1, 2, 3, 4, etc.) Divide the product by 71. Take the remainder. Deduct from this remainder the figure 5, 21, 14 etc. shown under Sun, Moon, Mars etc. Go on deducting these figures until further deduction is not possible. The number that cannot be deducted will show the number of days etc. in which work will be accomplished. The Number will be days if the non-diminishable number falls under Sun or Mars. 
It will be so many fortnights if the undiminishable number falls under Venus or Moon. It will be so many months if the undiminishable number falls under Jupiter. It will be so many years if it falls under Saturn. 
23. At a query regarding conception, victory, defeat, destruction of enemies, meeting with new persons, and acquisition of wealth, the time of fruition of good and bad results is to be declared in this way after careful thought. 
24. Query relating to Dreams. In a query relating to dreams, if the Sun is placed in the ascendant he has seen fire, a lamp red cloth or a king in the dream. 
If the Moon is placed in the ascendant, he has seen white cloth, white flower, scent or a woman in the dream. 
25. Mars placed in the ascendant indicates that he would have seen coral, gold, blood, or fresh meat of an animal. Mercury in the ascendant denotes dreams about travel by air. Jupiter there, would point to dreams of meeting gods and relatives. 
26. Venus in the ascendant tells about dreams regarding swimming in water. Saturn therein indicates climbing mountains and lofty places. If many planets are placed in the ascendant mixed results are to be told. 
27. If there is a planet in the ascendant placed in inimical sign or in debilitation or defeated in planetary war, the person has seen a bad dream. If there is a planet in setting placed in the ascendant, the querist will meet with defeat. 
28. The time of fructification of the results is to be told from the number of signs between the ascendant and the Moon. The results of one's own dreams are to be guessed as told above. Thus Yavaneshwara has declared. 
29. The seven classes of letters beginning with (1) v (2) d (3) p (4) v (5) r (6) i and (7) ; and ('k) are alloted to the planets the Sun, Mars, Venus, Mercury, Jupiter Saturn and the Moon respectively. From the first letter of the query, the ascendant should be determind. 
30. The good and bad results are to be told to the querist. If the letter is the first, third or the fifth of the class, the odd sign belonging to the planet is to be fixed as the ascendant. 
31. By the rest i.e., the second and fourth letters, the even sign belonging to the planet is to be taken as the ascendant. This process is to be applied to find out the lagna belonging to Venus, Mercury, Jupiter, Mars and Saturn, but not for the Sun and the Moon for they own one sign each. Letters of Sun give Leo and those of Moon Cancer as the ascendant. 
32. From that ascendant all the good and bad results are to be proclaimed as before. If the time of query cannot be determined exactly this method is to be adopted for fixing the ascendant in dealing with queries. 
Chapter 15 - General
1. The twelve houses ascendant onwards represent body, treasure, fighting, vehicles, counsel, enemies, path longevity, mind, occupation, gains and minister.
2. The Sun, Saturn and Mars spoil occupied house excepting the 3rd and the eleventh houses. The Sun and Mars do not spoil the 10th house by their occupation. The benefics cause all the houses to flourish by their placement except the 6th house. But Venus is not good in the 7th house. The Moon is not auspicious in the 8th house. Nor is it good for the house falling in the sign of Leo.
3. Benefics placed in the ascendant bestow good health, riches and comforts upon the native. While placed in the second house, they cause acquisition of wealth. In the third house, the cause increase in the strength of the army.
4. If benefics are posited in the fourth house, there will be increase in the prospects of vehicles and friends. While situated in the fifth house, they cause the benefits of good counsel. In the sixth house, benefics destroy the enemies. Excepting Venus all other planets are favourable for travel when placed in the 7th.
5. In the eighth house, benefics excepting the Moon protect the life of the person (i.e., they cause prolonged life for the person). In the ninth house they give fame and wealth. In the tenth house they produce victory in one's undertakings. In the eleventh, they cause much gains. In the twelfth, they cause increase in the strength of the army.
6. If Mars, the Sun, Saturn, and the Moon are place in the ascendant, there will arise murder, confinement in jail, death and fear respectively. If they are in the second house, they cause decay of wealth. In the third house they produce fame.
7. In the 4th house, there will be loss of vehicles and friends. In the 5th house, they will cause leakage of secret counsel. In the 6th house, they are good. They will cause the destruction of enemies. If they be in the 7th house, they do not give good results. Same (bad) is the result if Venus occupies the 7th house.
8. In the 8th house, the aforesaid malefics cause early death. When they are placed in the 9th house, they produce troubles to the army. In the tenth house Mars and the Sun produce victory. But Saturn therein will cause defeat.
9. In the eleventh house all of them indicate victory. In the 12th house, they cause division and betrayal in the army. The results produced by the malefics in the house other than the Upachaya ones (i.e., 3, 6, 10 and 11) are exactly opposite in nature to those produced by the benefics in these houses.
10. Even if a malefic is happily posited in the ascendant it is praiseworthy. A benefic planet, if afflicted, is not good in the ascendant. A retrograded planet is not good if it is placed in an angular house. Its day, Vargas (Decanate, Navamsha etc.) and its stay in the ascendant also will not prove to be auspicious.
11-17. Interpretation of Decanates. The matters to be judged from the first decanate of the ascendant of query upto the last decanate of the 12th house are respectively : (1) The king, (2) his commander-in-chief (3) royal astrologer, (4) priest and doctor, servants (5) status and prowess, (6) dealings and army (7) food (8) sleeping (9) sitting (10) vehicles (11) seat and couch (12) eating and drinking (13) prince (14) counsel and strength (15), (16), (17) and (18) enemy, (19) resting of the army (20) wealth (21) magistrate imposing punishments on the guilty (22) troubles to the army (23) mutiny in the army (24) commander-in-chief (25) health of the army (26) soldiers (27) four-fold strength (28) actions (29) treasury (30) fructification of results (31) meritorious deeds (32) actions (33) wealth (34) soldiers (35) worship (36) end of travel.
18. These are the matters relating to the 36 decanates beginning from the ascendant of query. Good and bad results relating to the matters which I have declared is to be foretold according to conjunction and aspect on decanates of benefic and malefic planets.
19-20. Results from Navamsas. The results arising from the ascendant falling in the Navamsas of the seven planets beginning from the Sun and ending with Saturn are : (1) loss of vehicles, (2) loss of prowess and return to home with difficulty, (3) fear from fire, (4) acquisition of friends, (5) gain of wealth, (6) various material pleasures and (7) death and destruction.
21. Whatever has been declared as the result for a particular planet in ascendant the same is generated by the corresponding planet represented by the lord of the Navamsa sign. If the Navamsa is owned by a benefic a portion of the army belonging to one party renders help to the army of the king who has come to attack.
22. The king who goes to conquer in the sign and Navamsa belonging to a benefic gets help from the army of the enemy.
23. Whatever has been declared as the results for the rising sign, the same is to be told as the result of the rising dwadasamsa, (dwadasamsa is 1/12th portion of a sign extending over 2o30'). What has been said as the result for the Navamsa, the same is to be told for Trimsamsa (1/30th portion of a sign extending over 1o) also.
24. Combinations Leading to Destruction of Enemies. If the query lagna of the invader falls in the sign of his Janmalagna, or the Janmarasi, or an Upachayarasi counted from his natal ascendant or Moon sign or contains the lord of the ascendant at birth or the lord of the Moon sign, destruction of the enemy will be the result. If the said yoga in ascendant falls in 4th house from the ascendants etc. of the enemy or in the 7th from that of the querist the enemy is destroyed.
25. If the sign of the ascendant, its lord, janma rasi, or its lord in the horoscope of the enemy falls in the seventh or the fourth house of the chart of query, the death of the enemy is to be foretold.
26-27 If the rising sign is possessed by the Sun, the traveller will be troubled by hunger and thirst, will lose his way, will have eye trouble etc. If by Moon travels in connection withworship of some deity, alone should be undertaken. The signs of Mars there will cause troubles from disorders of bile, serpents, weapons and fire. The signs of Mercury in the ascendant, will produce happiness, acquisition of desired objects and fame. The signs of Jupiter in the first house produce gains of wealth, status, and destruction of enemies. The signs of Venus on the ascendant cause acquisition of wife and gems and success in undertakings. If the rising sign is possessed by Saturn, there will be danger from fire and insult from low people.
28. The sages have declared thus-Even though Taurus, Scorpio and Cancer are favourable for journeys they are inauspicious while falling on the ascendant or the 12th house.
29. If the ascendant, falls in the sign of Pisces or its Navamsa in any sign in lagna there will be confusion as to the direction of the destination or the correct path to be taken or there may arise other types of troubles and difficulties. One should not undertake a journey when the ascendant of travel falls in a watery sign or a watery Navamsa.
30. Discussion Regarding Hora : All the rules discussed above, being the verdicts of sages are authentic by themselves. But it is worth while to consider the strength of Hora at the time of travel. [Hora is of three kinds : (1) Tiryang mukhi = facing across, (2) Urdhvamukhi = facing upwards, (3) Adhomukhi = facing downwards. Hora is 1/2 a sign and extends over 15o. Each sign contains two horas]. The hora in which the Sun is placed is to be reckoned Tiryangmukhi and the next horas in the order Urdhvamukhi, Adhomukhi, again Tiryangmukhi and so on.
31. [The results of Yatra Lagna falling in different kinds of hora are told now]. If the lagna falls in U-hora, objects are achieved with ease without any difficulty. T-hora there produces difficulties, efforts and losses. A-hora causes defeat and destruction of the army and makes return to home difficult. All the horas produce good results if they are aspected by their lords and are not aspected by malefic planets.
32. The lords of the directions from East to North are respectively the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Mercury, Venus, Saturn and the Moon. Yamardha Rahu resides during the first half-(HINDI duration of 3 hours i.e. for 1-1/2 hour in the direction of the lord of the day. In the next HINDI it moves to the sixth direction there from and so on.
33. The time from the commencement of the day to the time in question is to be expressed in ghatikas and the same is to be multiplied by 2 and then divided by 5. From the quotient the number of hours elapsed, will be known. The lord of the next hour is the lord of the hour of query. Others are to be reckoned in the order the Sun, Venus, Mercury, the Moon, Saturn, Jupiter and Mars.
34. A person gets success in such undertakings as theft, robbery, cheating and war if the same are performed during the Karanas Vyatipata, Bhadra and Vaidhriti, rise of ascendant possessed by a malefic planet and during the days of malefics.
35. The signs Aries, Leo and sagittarius are reckoned as representing the eastern direction; Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn in the South; Gemini, Libra and Aquarius in the West; and Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces in the North. In whatever sign is the Moon posited, that sign is considered to be facing the person on the journey.
36. If HINDI is on the left, the Moon in the front, Rahu at the back, there will be victory in the war. If the Moon is on the right the object will be achieved. If it is on the left, there will be troubles and losses. If it be on the backside, death is sure in the war.
37. If there is a strong planet in the 5th house to the planet who is the lord of the direction of journey that planet will prevent his travel in the desired direction but will make him travel in the direction ascribed to it.
38. Even if one among Jupiter, Mercury, Venus and Saturn is placed in the 5th house from Mars or if the Moon is placed in the 5th or 9th house from the Sun, the person will not be able to go in the desired direction. The stronger of the two planets mentioned above will take him in the direction ascribed to it.
39. Saturn and Mars, or the Sun and the Moon, or Venus and Mars if placed mutually in trines (5th and 9th from each other) they destroy the results told previously but will make the person travel in their directions.
40. If Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn are placed in trine to Mars or if the Moon is placed in trine to the Sun or if a strong planet is placed in the fifth place to the lord of the direction in which the querist desires to go, the person performs journey comfortably in the other direction.
41. In order to discern the results visible and invisible an astrologer should interpret queries after understanding the work on Horary science, bearing the name "Daivajnavallabha" composed by Mihira.
42. This science of Astrology clearly shows the results of whatever merit and demerit has been earned through one's actions in previous birth, like a lamp which makes different things visible in darkness.
43. The illustrious Varahamihira, who was the son of Adityadasa, who got instructions and knowledge of the science of Astrology from his father (Aditya), who belonged to the gotra called Kapiththala, who got boons and blessings from the Sun God, and who was a native of the country of Avanti, composed this work after careful scrutiny of the opinions of different sages with great effort.
41-2. Whether the result of the query will materialise in years or months etc., should be decided from the fact whether the lord of the Navamsa of the lagna at the query time represents hours, or months or fortnights etc. How many years, months etc., would be involved should then be decided on the basis of the number of Navamsas traversed in the lagna. 
Om Tat Sat 
