
 	Madhya Parashari 

This ancient scripture is also believed to be written by the unknown author of Laghu Parashari and deals with further interpretations and hints about Vimshottari Dasa. 

1. After bowing before Parashara Munni and examining his Hora Sara, the essence, of Nakshatra Dasha System is being described here.

2. It is prayed that the Sun etc. nine planets and Aries etc. Twelve Rashis (signs) may always shower their blessings upon mankind.

3. The learned have advised to consider the Ascendant and the 9th house for the wealth of the native; and the 4th and 10th, for his happiness and prosperity.

4. The 8th house from the Ascendant and the 8th from the 8th i.e. the 3rd are the two houses of longevity. The 12th (Vayaya) from them i.e. the 2nd and 7th are Marakasthanas.

5. Except the Sun and Moon, all the other planets when they own the Marakasthanas become Maraka planets. Lords of the 6th, 8th, 12th and Rahu-Ketu are also Marakas.

6. Lords of the Vipat, Pratyari and Vadha Stars have been considered in Jataka Shastra as Marakas. 3rd, 5th, 7th stars from the birth star are called respectively Vipat, Pratyari and Vadha stars.(6)

7. The Lords of the 2nd and 12th counted from the sign where in the Moon is posited in the birth chart; the Lord of the 22nd decanate from the decanate the rising sign falls and also the 23rd asterism from the asterism under which the birth has taken place - these four too have been considered as Marakas.

This brings to the end of the Samajna Adhyaya

Chapter 2

Rajayoga Adhyaya

1. Now the effects of the Rajayoga etc. depending upon the position, sign and aspect of planets are being described.

2. The learned Astrologer should first of all learn to find out the Spasht Ascendant, Spasht Rashi (Sign) through Spasht movement of the heavenly bodies(2).

3-4 ½ . First of all consider the longevity of the native: Whether his life span is short, medium or full; there after the horoscope be studied for other indications. When a native has not to live long it is useless to know the other events of his life. Then assess the properties and effects, good or bad, of the twelve houses.

Inauspicious Houses

4-5 ½ . The house formed by the sum of the 11th, 3rd, 8th, 6th and 12th will certainly destroy its own properties.

Auspicious Houses

5-6 ½ . Angular signs (1-4-7-10) are benefic and Trinal signs (9-5) are good and auspicious. The house formed by the sum of these, even if it is evil, will give good effects. In this case also compute in the same manner as explained in the case of previous Shloka.

Pecularities of the Angular and Trinal Signs

6-7. The great Rishis have given the name of Angles to the four houses (1st, 4th, 7th and 10th) from the Ascendant and the 4th and 10th of these are more auspicious. The same way amongst the Trines (1st, 5th and 9th) consider the 9th and 5th more beneficent.

Planetary Aspect

9-10. Now let us examine the various combinations of Rajayoga. Trines have been described as the abode of Goddess Lakshmi and the Angles, as that of God Vishnu. Their union i.e. the relationship between their Lords, cause the native to become a Chakravarti Raja.

11. If the Lord of the 9th is in the 5th or that of the 5th is in the 9th and both mutually aspect each other, the native will be an emperor.

12. The Lords of the 5th and the 9th may occupy any house in the Chart, if they are 7th from each other, then the native, born of a royal family, is sure to be a ruler.

13. If the Lord of the 4th (Vahana House) is in the 10th (Mana House) and that of the 10th is in the 4th and are being aspected by the Lord of the 5th or 9th, the native will be a ruler.

14. If the Lords of the 5th, 10th, 4th and the Ascendant (Asc.) occupy any house with the Lord of the 9th in the Chart then the prince shall have plenty of elephants, horses etc., means of conveyance and extend his empire with his valour.

15. When the Lords of the 4th and 10th associate with that of the 5th and are aspected by that of the 9th, the native will be a king.

16. If the Lord of the 5th associating with the Lords of the 9th and that of the 1st occupies the Ascendant, the 4th or the 10th, then the native born of a royal family will become a King.

This brings to the end of Raja Yoga Adhyaya

Chapter 3

Dhana Yoga

1. Now various Dhana Yogas are being described depending upon the position of planets in house/sign and their aspects.

2. All those planets which associate with the Lords of the 9th and the 5th or are aspected by them bring happiness; and those which associate with the Lords of the 8th, 6th, 12th, 2nd and the 7th or are aspected by them give sorrow.

3. Dhana Yoga should be computed after assessing the malefic-benefic nature of the planets, their effects by position and association.

4. When Jupiter is in his own sign (3-6) and Mars and Moon occupy the 11th, the native is blessed with a lot of wealth.

5. When Mercury is in the 5th house in his own sign (3-6) and Mars and Moon occupy the 11th, the native is blessed with a lot of wealth.

6. If Venus with Mercury is in the 5th house with (2-7) sign and Saturn in the 11th, the native will be a very rich man.

7. If the Sun is in the 5th in his own sign (5) and Jupiter occupies the 11th, the native will be a very rich man.

8. If Saturn occupies the 5th house in Capricorn or Aquarius (Virgo or Libra Lagna) and Moon and the Sun are in the 11th, the native will be a very wealthy person.

9. Should Jupiter be in the 5th house in hos own sign (9-12), and Mercury associating with Moon be in the 11th, the native will be a very rich man.

10. Should the Moon be in her own sign (4) in the 5th house and the 11th is occupied by Mars, the native will be an affluent man.

Special Yoga

11. Should Leo be rising in the Ascendant and the Sun occupies it aspected by Mars and Jupiter, the native will possess 10,000 mohars (a coin).

12. If Moon in his own sign (4) occupies the Ascendant (Asc.) and Jupiter associated with Mars aspects it, the native will be very rich and famous.

13. Should Mars be in Aries or Scorpio in the Ascendant (Asc.) and be aspected by Jupiter associated with Moon, the native will be wealthy and famous.

14. Should Mercury be in Gemini or Virgo in the Ascendant (Asc.) and be aspected by Jupiter and Moon, the native will be a man of wealth and name.

15. Should Jupiter occupy the Ascendant (Asc.) in Sagittarius or Pisces and Mercury associated with Venus aspects him, the native will be a man of wealth and name.

16. Should Venus be in the Ascendant (Asc.) in his own sing Taurus or Libra and Saturn associated with Mercury aspects him, the native will be both rich and reputed.

17. If Saturn be in the Ascendant (Asc.) in his own sign, Capricorn or Aquarius and Mercury is associated with Venus aspects him, the native will have both wealth and name.

This brings to the end of Dhana Yoga Adhyaya.

Chapter 4

Daridra (Penury) Yoga Adhyaya

1. Now study a few combinations causing utter poverty which are responsible for many kinds of troubles. One born with such Yogas of the malefics is sure to live penniless.

2. All the planets, which associate themselves with the Lords of the 8th, 6th, 12 and Markesh (2-7) and are not associated with or aspected by the Lords of the 5th-9th, are responsible for extremes of pain, misery and suffering.

3. If the Lord of the Ascendant (Asc.) is in the 12th and that of the 12th is in the Ascendant and are associated with or aspected by the Markesh (Lord of the 2nd or 7th), the native is sure to be penniless.

4. Should the Lord of the Ascendant (Asc.) be in the 6th or that of the 6th be in the Ascendant or the Lord of the Ascendant be posited in the 7th associated with or aspected by Markesh, the native will be penniless.

5. If Moon associated with Ketu is in the Ascendant (Asc.) and the Lord of Ascendant associated with or aspected by Markesh is in the 8th, even the prince will become a pauper.

6. If the Lord of Ascendant (Asc.) associated with malefics, is in the 6th, 8th or the 12th, conjunct with or aspected by the Markesh even the prince will be a pauper.

7. If the Lord of the Ascendant is associated with or aspected by the Sun, the Lord of the 12th or Saturn and is not aspected by any benefic planet, the native is penniless.

10. If the Lord of the Navamsha occupied by the Moon associates with the Markesh or occupies the Marakasthana, the native will be penniless.

11. Except the Lords of the 9th and the 10th, if malefics associated with or aspected by the Markesh occupy the Ascendant, the native becomes bereft of wealth.

12. If the Lord of the Ascendant (Asc.) or the Lord of the Navamsha in which, the Lord of Ascendant falls, occupies the 12th, 8th or the 6th and is associated with or aspected by Markesh, the native will be a pauper.

13. If the Dhana house i.e. the 2nd house is occupied by both Mars and Moon, they destroy wealth.

On the contrary if the 2nd house is occupied by Saturn who is aspected by Mercury, it promotes a lot of wealth.

14. If the Sun is posited in the 2nd house and is aspected by Saturn, the native is penniless.

If the Sun is posited in the 2nd house and if he is not aspected by Saturn he grants a lot of wealth and name to the native.

15-16. Benefics in the Dhana (9th) house grant affluence.

Mercury associated with Jupiter in the 12th house cause poverty.

Moon associated with Mercury in the 12th house is also said to be injurious causing poverty.

So the learned should first consider the strength of the yoga (good or bad) and then decide about the gain or loss of wealth.


This bring s to an end the Daridra Yoga Adhyaya

Chapter 5

Dasa Phala Adhyaya

1. Now I give the distinction between the good and bad of Planetary Dasha depending upon the Character of their Yoga and aspect etc. drawn as essence from the Ocean of Astrological works.

2. The 1st 07, Nitya 10, Sana 07, Deya 18, Taya 16, Dhanya 19, Sata 17, Sana 07 and Nara 20 are respectively the years of Maha Dasha of the Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Ketu and Venus in the Vimshottari Dasha System.

3-6. To find out the Antar Dasha of a planet in the Dasha of any planet, multiply the Dasha Years of that planet with 3 and the product thus obtained be again multiplied with the Dasha Years of the Ishta (desired) planet and this product be divided by 30. The figure so available in months etc. will represent the Antar Dasha. Also multiply the Antar Dasha time of a particular planet with the Dasha Years whose Pratyantar Dasha is to be found and divide the product by 120. The resultant will be the Pratyantar time. The same way the Sookshmantar and Prana Dasha Antar have to be computed.

7. The learned after computing the Dashas have arrived at their good or bad effects in the lives of the natives, similarly, longevity can also be predicted.

8. Sages say that the Antar of the Lord of the 9th in the Dasha of the Lord of the 5th is most auspicious.

9. The Dasha of the Lord of the 9th associated with that of the 5th grants progeny and rajya (authority);

The Dasha of the Lord of the 4th conjoined with that of the 10th is auspicious (grants progeny and authority).

10. The Dasha of the planet associated with the Lord of the 5th or 9th is also auspicious.

11. The Dasha of the planet conjoined with a malefic is bad;

If the Dasha lord is conjoined with a benefic, it is good and promotes wealth.

12. The Sages say that the Dasha of the Lord of the Ascendant (Asc.) associated with that of the 5th or 9th gives rajya (power to rule).

13-14. The Dasha of the Lords of the 5th and the 9th or those of the 10th and the 5th when they conjoin or that of the 4th and the 9th when they conjoin confers power and prosperity.

15. The Dasha of the Lord of the 10th occupying the 9th house confers fame, prosperity and happiness; the result is the same in the Dasha of this Lord of the 10th associated with that of the 4th.

16. The Dashas of the Lords of the 6th and that of the 7th become auspicious if they occupy the 10th house or associate with the Lord.

17. If the same planet owns the 2nd and the 7th houses (Marakas) and occupies the 4th house or is associated with its Lord then the Dasha of that planet will also be auspicious.

18. In the Dasha of the Lord of the Ascendant or that of the 6th and the Antar of the Markesh (Lords of the 2nd-7th) there is danger from arms and chances of great suffering.

19. If the Lord of the 4th is in the 10th and that of the 10th is in the 4th then their Dashas are said to be auspicious by the learned.

20. Lords of the 4th, 10th, 5th and 9th wherever are together in anyone house, and the planet associating with them, his Dasha is also said to be auspicious.

21. If the Lords of the 5th and the 10th occupy the 4th, their Dashas are said to be auspicious conferring power and authority.

22. The Learned say that the Dashas of the planets which are associated with or aspected by the Lords of the 5th and the 10th confer power and authority.

23. The Dashas of the Lord of the 5th occupying the 10th or that of the 10th in his own house (10th) confer wealth and power.

This brings to an end of the Dasha Phala Adhyaya.

Chapter 6

Antar Dasha Phala Adhyaya

1-2. Now I am going to describe the effects of the various Antar Dashas in the Dashas of all the planets.

If the Lord of the Ascendant (Asc.) is posited in its own Navamsha then its Antar is auspicious. In the same way if the Lord of the Ascendant is posited in its own Dwadasamsa or Drekkana, the Learned say, their Antar is also equally auspicious.

3-4. If the Lord of the Ascendant (Asc.) is in its own Trimsamsha or that of a friend, in the house of a friend, in the Navamsha of a friend or in the Dwadasamsa of a friend, their Antar is auspicious.

5. The Antar of a planet, occupying the Navamsha, Dwadasamsa or Drekkana of the 5th house, will be auspicious.

6. The Antar of a planet, occupying the Navamsha, Dwadasamsa or Drekkana of the 9th house, will be auspicious.

7. The Antar of a planet, occupying the Navamsha, Dwadasamsa or Drekkana of the 4th house will be auspicious.

8. If the Lord of the sign, in whose Navamsha the Lord of the Ascendant (Asc.) is posited, is occupying the Navamsha of a friend or the Dwadasamsa of a friend or the Drekkana of a friend and is aspected by a friend, its Antar is said to be auspicious.

9. Now I describe the bad Dasha periods. The Dasha of the Lords of the 6th, 8th and the 12th are inauspicious.

10. If the Lord of the Maraka associates with that of the 6th or the 1st, its Antar brings fever that has been predicted by sages.

11-17. If the Lord of the Ascendant associated with that of the 6th is in the Shadvarga (six) of the Sun, its Antar will then cause biliousness (Pitta disorder).

If the Lord of the Ascendant associated with that of the 6th is in the Shadvarga (six) of the Moon, its Antar will cause ascetics and dyspepsia.

If the Lord of the Ascendant associated with that of the 6th is in the Shadvarga (six) of Mars, it will give blood-disorders.

If the Lord of the Ascendant associated with that of the 6th is in the Shadvarga (six) of Mercury, it will give disturbance of the wind (Vata - one of the three humours).

If the Lord of the Ascendant associated with that of the 6th is in the Shadvarga (six) of Jupiter, it will give disturbance of cough (Kapha) or trouble through Brahmins.

If the Lord of the Ascendant associated with that of the 6th is in the Shadvarga (six) of the of Venus, it will cause venereal diseases.

If the Lord of the Ascendant associated with that of the 6th goes to the Shadvanga of Saturn, it will cause troubles arising from wind (Vata) or disturbance of all the three humors (cough, wind and Bile).

18. In the Dasha of the Lord of the Ascendant or that of the 6th and the Antar of the Markesh (Lords of the 2nd-7th) there is danger from arms and chances of great suffering.

19. If Rahu, Ketu, Saturn or Mars etc. associated with the Markesh occupy the 8th, then their Dashas and Antar cause dyspnoea, cholera etc.

20. In the same way the Lords of the houses representing brothers etc. all the relatives when occupy a particular house in any chart then the effects of that house be interpreted depending upon the yoga of the Lord of that house falling the Shadvarga.

21-22. If the Lords of the Ascendant and that of the 6th associate with that of the 8th or Markesh, their Antar will cause harm through arms. Yoga of benefics will cause simple sickness only where as that of the malefics will cause death even.

23. The aforesaid pain and disease Karaka planets if are in Jeeva (living beings like men and mammals etc.) Navamsha then the suffering will be through Jeeva.

If the aforesaid pain and disease Karaka planets if are in Moola Navamsha then the suffering will be through Moola Varga (vegetable or roots).

If the aforesaid pain and disease Karaka planets if are in Dhatu Navamsha, the suffering will be through Dhatu (metal or mineral) Varga.

24. Lords of Ascendant or that of the Navamsha in which Ascendant falls and that of the 8th, if they both occupy the Shadvarga of Aries and are associated with or aspected by its Lord, Mars, (or Aries) then in their Dasha there is danger from wolves.

25-30. If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Taurus, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from tiger;

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Gemini, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from monkey.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Cancer, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from donkey.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Leo, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from Lion.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Virgo, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a bear.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Libra, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a deer.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Scorpio, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from some bird.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Sagittarius, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a horse.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Capricorn, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a thorn.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Aquarius, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from the tail of a cow or a monkey.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying Aries are in the Dwadasamsa of Pisces, during their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from sheep or horse.

This will also apply to the Lords of the third house (Brothers) and the fourth house (Mother).

31. If the Lord of the Ascendant and that of the 8th occupying Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Taurus or in its Drekkana, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from bullock. 

32-36. If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsha of Gemini then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from tiger.

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Cancer, then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from a Bow (Guna) etc;

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Leo, then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from the lion or tiger;

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Virgo, then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from the monkey;

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Libra, then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from a biped (man);

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Scorpio, then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from snake etc;

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Sagittarius, then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from weapons;

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Capricorn, then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from buffalo;

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Aquarius, then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from a monkey;

If these Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th occupying the sign of Taurus are in the Dwadasamsa of Pisces, then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from deer.

In the same way, if they are in the 3rd house etc., the predictions maybe given for the brother, mother, father respectively.

37. If the Lords of the Ascendant and the 8th are in Leo in its Dwadasamsa (of Leo) then in their Dasha and Antar there is danger from mouse and serpents etc.

38-43. If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Virgo then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from monkey;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Libra then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from fever;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Scorpio then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from snakes;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Sagittarius then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from horse;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Capricorn then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from fever;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Aquarius then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from the King;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Pisces then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from the elephant;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Aries then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from Jackal;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Taurus then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a dog bite;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Gemini then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from an ape;

If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Leo in the Dwadasamsa of Cancer then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from fire burns etc;

In the same way, it should be taken in case of the 3rd house (of the brother) etc., also.

44. If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Amsha (Dwadasamsa) of Sagittarius, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from horse.

45-50. If these Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Dwadasamsa of Capricorn then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from elephant etc;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Dwadasamsa of Aquarius, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from pig;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Dwadasamsa of Pisces, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from crocodile;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Dwadasamsa of Aries, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a quadruped;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Dwadasamsa of Taurus, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a donkey;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Amsha (Dwadasamsa) of Gemini, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a monkey;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Amsha (Dwadasamsa) of Cancer, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from mice or rats;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Amsha (Dwadasamsa) of Leo, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a jackal;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Amsha (Dwadasamsa) of Virgo, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from the ape;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Amsha (Dwadasamsa) of Libra, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a camel;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Sagittarius in the Amsha (Dwadasamsa) of Scorpio, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from serpent etc.

51. If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Amsha (Dwadasamsa) of Capricorn then in their Dasha and Antar there is danger of ill name and criticism. So say the Sages.

52-57. If these Lords of the Ascendant and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsha of Aquarius then in their Dasha and Antar, there will be danger from bear;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Pisces, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from elephant;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Aries, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from water;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Taurus, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from weapon (Vajra);

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Gemini, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from deer;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Cancer, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from elephant;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Leo, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from some great sin;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Virgo, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from an arrow;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Libra, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from mongoose;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Scorpio, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from a cat;

If both the Lords of the Ascendant (Asc.) and that of the 8th occupying Capricorn in the Dwadasamsa of Sagittarius, then in their Dasha and Antar there will be danger from donkey.

In the same way, it may be applied to the Bhavas representing father, mother brother etc.

This brings to the end of the Antar Dasha Phala Adhyaya.

Chapter 7

Karaka Dasha Phala Adhyaya


1. Now I will describe the effects of the planets depending upon their nature and qualities for the information of students.

2. By caste Jupiter-Venus are Brahmins: the Sun-Mars are Kshatrias, Moon-Mercury are merchants; Saturn, a Sudra and Rahu-Ketu are Neecha (low) caste.

3. All the 12 signs beginning with Pisces in order are Brahamin, Kshatria, Merchant and Sudra. The sages have considered their Yogas and Aspects also while predicting.

4. The significators of the Bhavas in order are: The Sun, Jupiter, Mars, Moon, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn.

5. The Sun is the significator of father; the Moon of mother; Mercury-Saturn-Venus of brother; Mars of the Sun; the Sun of the friend; and Rahu-Saturn of enemies.

6-7. Saturn-Mars govern Father; Jupiter-Mercury-Venus govern Mother; the Sun and Moon; the King; Mars, the leader; Mercury, the Prince; Jupiter-Venus, the Minister; Saturn, the Servant. Effects should also be drawn accordingly.

8. Even Saturn in Aries is the governor of father, and all the planets show their special effects during their Antar Dasha.

9. The Lord of a house in his Dasha becomes the dispositor of the effects (gains or wealth) represented by the Lord of the Shadvarga occupied by him (the Lord of the house). These effects (gains or wealth) of the respective planets could be realized in their Dashas only.

10-13. If the Lord of the Dasha is posited in the Amsha (Hora- Navamsha etc.) of the Sun, the native gets fortune and prosperity through the king or his paternal side;

If the Lord of the Dasha is posited in the Amsha (Hora- Navamsha etc.) of Moon, the native gets fortune and prosperity from the maternal side;

If the Lord of the Dasha is posited in the Amsha (Hora- Navamsha etc.) of Mars, the native gets fortune and prosperity from the son or leaders;

If the Lord of the Dasha is posited in the Amsha (Hora- Navamsha etc.) of Mercury, the native gets fortune and prosperity from the fraternal side or princes;

If the Lord of the Dasha is posited in the Amsha (Hora- Navamsha etc.) of Jupiter, the native gets fortune and prosperity from the Jupiter or Ministers;

If the Lord of the Dasha is posited in the Amsha (Hora- Navamsha etc.) of Venus, the native gets fortune and prosperity from the mother or women or wife;

If the Lord of the Dasha is posited in the Amsha (Hora- Navamsha etc.) of Saturn, the native gets fortune and prosperity from the Shudras or attendants;

If the Lord of the Dasha is posited in the Amsha (Hora- Navamsha etc.) of Rahu or Ketu, the native gets fortune and prosperity from Shudras.

14. During the Dasha of Saturn-Mars the effects are through the father.

During the Dasha of Jupiter-Mercury-Venus, the effects are through mother and brothers.

15. During the Dasha of Jupiter the effects are due to Brahamatava or through the Brahmins. 

In the same way the effects of the Dashas of the planets may be read according to their respective qualities (Sangya).

This bring to the end of the Karaka Dasa Phala Adhyaya.

Chapter 8

Vimshottari Dasa Phala Adhyaya

1. We will include the Astrological results (good or bad) of the Nakshatra Dasha Paddhati as shown in Vimshottari System; and do not believe in Ashtottari System (This shloka is a repeat of the Shloka 3 in chapter 1 of of Laghu Parashari).

2. Starting with Krittika the Nakshatras from Krittika to the Janama Nakshatra (natal constellation) are divided by nine and the remainder will stand for the Lord of the commencing Dasha. The remaining periods will be of the planets in the order given below: The Sun, the Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Ketu and Venus.

3-5. The periods of the Dashas of the Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Ketu and Venus are 6, 10, 7, 18, 16, 19, 17, 7 and 20 respectively. Thus the life span has been taken as 120 years in Vimshottari.

6-8. For the natives of the Aries Asc. (Ascendant) Saturn, Mercury-Venus are inauspicious; Jupiter and the Sun are auspicious. But when there is relationship between Jupiter and Saturn the former (Jupiter) is bereft of his goodness (qualities). This is transferred by evil association only. Venus by owning the Marakasthana should be a Markesh; but this alone does not imbibe this quality in him. Malefics become Marakas by their association with Saturn etc. Moon and Mars are neutrals. Such are the good-bad Yogas for the Aries Ascendant-native.

9-10. For the natives of Taurus Ascendant (Asc.) Jupiter-Venus-Moon are evil; Saturn, Mercury are good; Saturn alone is a Raj Yoga Karaka, Mars-Jupiter-Venus and Moon are Marakas and the Sun is neutral. So should the learned read the effects of Taurus born natives.

11-12. For the natives of Gemini Asc. (Ascendant) Mars-Jupiter and the Sun are evil. Venus alone is auspicious. As Saturn conjoined with Jupiter is considered evil for Aries born, so is their association for the Gemini born. Moon being a Markesh is not a killer. She gives 'Nishphala' effects (fruitless) only. So should the wise consider the effects of the Gemini born.

13-14. For the natives of Cancer Asc. (Ascendant) Venus-Mercury are evil; Mars-Jupiter are good. Mars only is especially a Yoga Karaka. Saturn is a Maraka and other malefics are also Marakas.

15-16. For the natives of Leo Asc. (Ascendant) Mercury-Venus are evil; Mars-Jupiter are good. Relationship between Jupiter-Venus does not become Yogakaraka. Mercury and other malefics are Marakas.

17-18. For the natives of Virgo Asc. (Ascendant) Mars-Jupiter-Moon are evil. Venus only is auspicious. Venus + Mercury are Yoga Karaka. Though Venus is Markesh, she owns the 9th also: therefore, is not a Maraka. Mars etc. other planets are Marakas. So should the learned read the Virgo Asc. Chart.

19-20. For the natives of Libra Asc. (Ascendant) Jupiter, Sun-Mars are evil; Saturn-Mercury are good; Moon-Mercury are Raja Yoga Karaka; Mars, a Maraka; Jupiter-Sun-Mars are also Marakas and Venus is neutral - so should the learned know of the planets of Libra Asc. Charts.

21-22. For the natives of Scorpio Asc. (Ascendant) Mercury-Mars-Venus are evil; Jupiter-Moon are good; the Sun-Moon are Raja Yoga Karaka. Jupiter even by owning the 2nd (Maraka) is not Markesh. Mercury etc. other evil planets are Marakas. So should the learned know the effects of planets of Scorpio Asc. born.

23-24. For the natives of Sagittarius Asc. (Ascendant) Venus is the only evil planet; Mars - the Sun are good; the Sun - Mercury are Yogakaraka; Saturn is the Chief Markesh; but does not kill. In the same way Venus etc. evil planets in their Dashas and Antar prove to be fatal and show all the killing qualities.

25-26. For the natives of Capricorn Asc. (Ascendant) Mars, Jupiter and Moon are evil; Venus and Mercury are good; Saturn being a Markesh is not a killer; Mars etc. other malefics, when they have Maraka characteristics become such. Only Venus is a Yoga Karaka.

27-28. For the natives of Aquarius Asc. Jupiter, Moon and Mars are evil; only Venus is good and Yoga Karaka. When Jupiter, Moon and Mars show Maraka characteristics they become Markesh.

29-30. For the natives of Pisces Asc. Saturn, Venus, the Sun and Mercury are evil. Mars and Moon are good. Mars + Jupiter are Yoga Karaka. in spite of the Maraka characteristics Mars does not become a Markesh. Saturn and Mercury are Marakas. So should the learned accept the effects on Pisces born natives.

31-32. The learned should decide about the Maraka planets according to these principles. Except the Sun and Moon all the other planets are Marakas if they own the Maraka houses. The Markesh does not prove to be fatal in his Dasha or Antar. He kills in the Antar of an evil planet in his own Maha Dasha. Judgement of Houses - 9 Indications of houses from 1st to 12th.

This brings to the end of Vimshottari Dasha Phala Adhyaya.

Chapter 9

Judgment of Houses

1. Indications of the first house are: Physique, Complexion, Longevity, Fame, Status, Appearance and Wealth should be assessed from the Rising Sign, the Ascendant.

2. Second house (Dhana house) stands for Wealth; Happiness, Pleasure, Truthfulness, Speech, right eye etc.

3. Younger Brothers or Sister, Valor or courage, Throat, appetite, Ornaments, Talent or otherwise should be understood from the third house.

4. From the 4th house know of the Mother, Conveyance, Relatives, State protection, House, Friend and Arms.

5. Of sons, Intellect, Mantras, Faith in God, Heart and Maternal Uncles be deduced from the 5th house.

6. 6th house stands for Enemies, Relations, Strength, Illness and Stomach problems etc.

7. Know from the 7th House about Cohabitation, Wife or Husband, Protection, Teeth and Navel diseases in and around it. From the 8th House about Private parts and their diseases, Longevity etc.

8. Consider about the Destiny, Pilgrimage, the 9th etc. from the 9th house and Employment, Occupation, Honor, Trade and commerce (Father) etc. from the 10th house.

9. The 11th house stands for Gain, Elder brother, Ears and Thigh and the 12th for Expenses, Paternal Wealth, Criticism and left eye etc.

10. Aquarius, Cancer, Taurus, Pisces, Scorpio and Libra and watery signs and the rest are dry.

11. Sun, Mars and Saturn are fiery; Moon-Venus are watery; Mercury-Jupiter are watery if in watery sign and fiery if in any other sign.

This brings to the end of Madhya Parashari
Email this page to a friend
 	 
 
